
The process of dividing a computher file, such as a data file of executable
program file, into fragments that are stored in different parts of a computer's
storage medium, such as its hard disc or RAM, is known as fragmentation in
computing.
When a file is fragmented, it is stored on the storage medium in non-contigious
blocks, which means that the blocks are not stored next to each other.

What is Fragmentation in Operating System?
An umwanted problem with operating system is fragmentation, which occurs when 
processes load and unload from memory and divide available memory. Because memory
blocks are so small, they cannot be assigned to processes, and thus remain idle.
It's also important to realize that programs create free space or holes in
memory when they are loaded and unloaded. Because additional processes cannot be
assigned to these little pieces, memory is used inefficiently.
The memory allocation scheme determines the fragmentation circumstances. These 
regions of memory become fragmented when the process loads and unloads from it,
making it unusable for incoming processes. We refer to it as fragmentation.

Cause of Fragmentation
This can happen when a file is too large to fit into a single contiguous block
of free space on the storage medium, or when the blocks of free space on the
medium are insufficient to hold the file. Because the system must search for and
retrieve individual fragments from different locations in order to open the file,
fragmentation can cause problems when reading or accessing the file.

Effect of Fragmentation
This can reduce system performance and make it more difficult to access the file.
It is generally best to defragment your hard disc on a regular basis to avoid
fragmentation, which is a process that rearranges the block of data on the disc 
so that files are stored in contigious blocks and can be accessed more quickly.

Types of Fragmentation
- Internal Fragmentation - occurs when there is unused space within a memory
block.
- External Fragmentation - occurs when a storage medium, such as a hard disc or 
solid-state drive, has many small blocks of free space scattered thoughout it.

How Fragmentation in Operating System affects the system?
- Slower performance
- Disc space wasting
- Data loss
- Increased risk of system crashes
- Reduced battery life